Department of Bio-science

The Department of Bio-science is one of the departments in the Faculty of Applied Science
of the University of Vavuniya, commenced in 1997. The Department of Bio-science offers the
course units for the bachelors degree programme in Environmental Science. The Syllabi has
been drafted with different courses in Environmental Science with an emphasis on fields of
technological importance. The major objective of the department is to train the undergraduates
to suit the latest trends in the industry, research, and development of the national economy
through course work, practical sessions, industrial training, and research projects pertaining
to Environmental Science. The revised curriculum has been approved by the Council and the
UGC. The curriculum was revised in such a way to offer the Bachelor of Science Honours
in Environmental Science as a four-year honours degree program, in line with the Outcome
Based Education and Learner Centered Teaching (OBE-LCT) and Sri Lanka Qualifications
Framework (SLQF).




Department of Physical Science

The Department of Physical Science of University of Vavuniya came into existence with the
commencement of the Faculty of Applied Science in 1997. Initially, the department offered
the course units for a degree programme named Applied Mathematics and Computing. Then
the Information and Communication Technology Degree programme was introduced in 2006
for all streams of advanced level students. The Applied Mathematics and Computing Degree
programme was also revised and the three-year degree programme named Applied Mathematics
and Computing and the four-year degree programme named Computer Science.
The major commitment of the department is to provide up-to-date knowledge in Mathemat-
ics and Statistics, Computer Science, and Information Technology to undergraduates through
coursework, practical sessions, industrial training, and research projects. The Information and
Communication Technology programme was revised as Information Technology degree pro-
gramme in 2018. The department has been offering the course units for the Bachelor of
Science in Applied Mathematics and Computing, Bachelor of Science Honours in Computer
Science, Bachelor of Science in Information Technology, and Bachelor of Science Honours in
Information Technology from the academic year 2017/18 onwards based on the curriculum re-
vision in 2018. The revised curricula are in line with the Outcome Based Education and Learner
Centered Teaching (OBE-LCT), Sri Lanka Qualification Framework (SLQF), IEEE/ACM, and
Subject Benchmark Statements of IT (SBS-IT) guidelines.

